Install Node.js on your machine or computer and verify the installation using:

 ```bash
   node -v
   ```


To create a framework-agnostic Node.js app with Express from the command line:

1. Create a working project folder using `mkdir`:
   ```bash
   mkdir nodejs-app
   ```

2. Change the working directory to `nodejs-app`:
   ```bash
   cd nodejs-app
   ```

3. Initialize a Node.js app using npm or yarn:
   ```bash
   npm init --yes
   ```
   or
   ```bash
   yarn init --yes
   ```

   Using the `--yes` or `-y` flag skips required prompts and populates `package.json` with default configuration.

4. After successful initialization, a `package.json` file is created.
   
   **Purpose of `package.json`**:
   The `package.json` file serves as a manifest for the Node.js project, containing metadata and dependencies information.

6. Install necessary packages:
   ```bash
   yarn add express
   yarn add nodemon
   yarn add -D dotenv
   yarn add body-parser
   ```

   **Purpose of the installed packages**:
   - `express`: Web framework for Node.js that simplifies building web applications.
   - `nodemon`: Development dependency that automatically restarts the server on file changes.
   - `dotenv`: Module for loading environment variables from a `.env` file.
   - `body-parser`: Middleware to parse incoming request bodies.

   After installing packages with `yarn`, the project directory will have a `node_modules` folder and a `yarn.lock` file.

   **Purpose of `node_modules` and `yarn.lock`**:
   - `node_modules`: Contains all installed dependencies of the project.
   - `yarn.lock`: Lock file generated by yarn to ensure consistent installs of dependencies.

7. Create necessary files:
   ```bash
   touch app.js
   touch .env
   ```

   **Purpose of created files**:
   - `app.js`: Main file for writing server logic using Express.
   - `.env`: File for storing environment variables.

8. Configure `package.json` with scripts:
   ```json
   "scripts": {
     "start": "nodemon app.js",
     "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1",
     "dev": "node dev"
   }
   ```

9. Write server logic in `app.js`.

To run the Node.js app from the command line, use:
```bash
node app.js
```

However, manually restarting the server (`node app.js` followed by `ctrl + C`) each time you make changes can be cumbersome. `nodemon` automates this process by monitoring file changes and restarting the server automatically.

`nodemon` significantly improves the development workflow by allowing continuous updates to the server app without the need to manually stop and restart the server each time a change is made.